is the following statement, true or false?
Truth is relative.
That statement is not relatively but absolutely false.
Something is truth for one person,
but not truth for another person.
Many religious organizations claim to have the truth, however.
Between them, there are many contradicting teachings.
Is this just another evidence that all truth is relative?
That there is no absolute truth?
No. The truth is that truth is not relative.
It is absolute.
Those who say truth is relative are not only relatively but absolutely wrong.
The Hebrew word for truth, a myth,
is often rendered truth and may designate what is firm, trustworthy, stable, or faithful.
The Greek word for truth, a Latia,
originates with the word meaning not concealed.
So the truth often involves the revealing of that which was formerly hidden.
Jesus said according to Luke 12 verse 2,
but there is nothing carefully concealed that will not be revealed
and nothing secret that will not become known.
There are over 70 places in the Gospel accounts
where Jesus is said to have used the unique expression
to emphasize the truthfulness of his words.
He would often say amen to introduce a sentence.
The corresponding Hebrew word meant certain true.
Lost the new international dictionary of New Testament theology, quote,
by introducing his words with amen,
Jesus labeled them as certain and reliable.
He stood by them and made them binding on himself and his hearers.
The new international dictionary of New Testament theology,
volume 3, page 901 says, quote,
many people try to unmask everything in the belief that no one and nothing
can genuinely lay claim to truth.
Truth can indeed be found.
We need to display a humble submission to truth whenever and wherever it emerges.
Such openness to truth is required of those who worship the God of truth.
Reference for truth ensures honesty in a man's dealings with his neighbor,
both in word and deed.
This is the attitude to which both the Old Testament and the New Testament bear witness.
End of quote.
Does the truth ever change?
That question was raised by the R. Ruggiero in his book, The Art of Thinking.
His answer is no, to quote him.
It may sometimes seem to that it changes, but on closer inspection it will be found not to.
Yes, the truth never changes.
Consider, he says, the case of the authorship of the first book of the Bible,
the book of Genesis.
For centuries, Christians and Jews alike believed that the book had a single author.
In time, this view was challenged and eventually replaced by the belief that as many as five authors contributed to Genesis.
Then, in 1981, the results of a five-year linguistic analysis of Genesis were published,
stating that there is an 82% probability of single authorship as originally thought.
Has the truth about the authorship of Genesis changed?
No, only our belief has changed.
End of quote.
He also wrote, the truth will not be changed by our knowledge or by our ignorance.
And we agree.
In fact, no one really believes that there is no truth when it comes to physical realities such as medicine,
mathematics, or the laws of physics.
All people believe that some things are true.
Who of us would dare to write in an airplane if we didn't believe that the laws of aerodynamics were absolute truth?
Very viable truth to exist.
They surround us and we stake our lives on them.
Does the truth ever change?
It does not.
Our understanding of truth changes as we progress in understanding it, but the truth never changes.
When Jesus said that our purpose in life was to talk about the truth,
He was speaking of something that faithful Jews had valued for centuries.
In their sacred writings, the Jews had long read of truth as something concrete, not theoretical.
In the Bible, truth translates the Hebrew word emith,
which signifies that which is firm, solid, and perhaps most of all reliable.
End of quote.
The Jews had good reason for viewing truth in that way.
They called their God, Jehovah, the God of truth.
This was because everything Jehovah said he would do, he did.
When he made promises, he kept them.
When he inspired prophecies, they were fulfilled.
When he uttered final judgments, they were carried out.
Millions of Israelites had been eyewitnesses of these realities.
The inspired writers of the Bible recorded them as indisputable facts of history.
Unlike other books viewed as sacred, the Bible is not set against a backdrop of myth or legend.
It is firmly grounded in verifiable facts, historical, archaeological, and scientific,
and sociological also realities.
No wonder the Psalmist says to Jehovah,
you are law is truth.
All your commandments are truth.
The very essence of your word is truth.
Since Jehovah God is the author of the Bible, the Bible is truth.
Jesus Christ echoed the words of that Psalm when he said in prayer to Jehovah,
you are word is truth.
Jesus knew that everything his father spoke was absolutely firm and reliable.
Likewise, Jesus himself was full of truth.
Yes, Jesus was even the personification of truth.
The Mosaic law was truth, but it was not the full truth.
Jesus taught something different from the Mosaic law.
The Bible shows that the Mosaic law was a shadow or prophetic picture of greater realities
which came through Christ.
And so the Mosaic law was not the full truth, but a pattern of it.
Jesus was not the shadow, but the reality.
He said in John 146,
I am the truth.
But as far as teachings are concerned, what is truth?
What helps us to understand it?
The Bible speaks of the spirit of the truth.
What is the spirit of the truth?
It is the spirit that proceeds from Jehovah God.
It is pure and holy.
Jesus told His disciples at John 16, 12 and 13.
I still have many things to say to you, but you are not able to bear them now.
However, when that one comes, the spirit of the truth,
he will guide you into all the truth,
for he will not speak of his own initiative, but what he hears, he will speak.
And he will declare to you the things to come.
God's spirit would teach them everything they needed to know to carry out their work,
recalling and opening up their understanding,
things that previously they heard from Jesus, but had not understood.
God's spirit would also declare to them the things coming,
including the bringing to light the significance of Jesus' death and resurrection.
As these events were then yet future and were among the things
that His disciples did not understand in the beginning.
Brother Charles Taze Russell wrote the book, The Divine Plan of the Ages.
It was published in 1886.
It included a discussion on the Bible as a divine revelation,
viewed in the light of reason.
It said, the depth and power and wisdom and scope of the Bible's testimony
convinced us that not man but Almighty God is the author,
to appreciate the truth more to what can we compare the truth.
Truth is like a mirror that helps us to see the facts
and if necessary to improve our looks.
Truth is like a pillar, firm and supportive,
and it helps to combat false teachings.
Truth is also compared to a girdle or a belt that warriors used.
It helps us to continue with right conduct.
Truth is like a rainbow for beauty.
Truth is as beautiful as the song of the Nightingale.
Truth is like a romantic bonfire for warmth on the cold evening.
Here's an illustration that many of you will like.
Truth is like the first cup of coffee in the morning, invigorating somebody.
Yes, truth is invigorating.
Truth is like a magnet drawing honest-hearted ones to God.
Truth is like an oasis in the desert.
Truth is like an anchor in the stormy seas.
Truth is like a lifeboat on a sinking ship.
Truth is like a lighthouse in the night guiding a boat safely to the shore or harbor.
Truth is like a compass showing sailors the way,
but it is also like a compass showing the way out of a jungle to a safe area.
Truth is like the rising sun bathing landscape in warm light.
Truth is like the display of fireworks for beauty.
Truth is like the magnetic shield around the earth protecting it from deathly cosmic radiation.
Truth is like light.
The fruit of light consists in every sort of truth.
He that does what is true comes to the light, the Bible says.
Imagine you were born blind and received eyesight through an operation.
Wouldn't you be elated?
Truth is like that when somebody comes to know and appreciate it.
Truth is like a beautiful music played solo or by an orchestra.
Truth is like the most delicious food for taste and gives strength.
Truth is what a nursing mother is to her baby.
Truth is like a hidden treasure.
We need to dig for it.
Truth is like refreshing water on a hot day.
Truth is like a mighty river.
If you try to stop it with a dam, it will overflow the dam.
Nobody can stop the truth.
Why?
Because Jehovah the Almighty is backing it up.
Truth is like a flower or even a bouquet of beautiful little flowers.
Brother Russell once wrote,
Truth, like a modest little flower in the wilderness of life,
is surrounded and almost choked by the luxurious growth of the weeds of error.
If you would find it, you must be ever on the lookout.
If you would see its beauty, you must brush aside the weeds of error
and the brambles of bigotry.
If you would possess it, you must stoop to get it.
But not content with one flower of truth,
had one being sufficient, there would have been no more.
Gather ever sick for more.
Truth is like a fragrance or perfume.
Truth is like a sparkling diamond.
Do you love diamonds?
But the truth value is so much more than diamonds because it brings Jehovah's friendship
and leads to everlasting life.
Truth is compared to a way on which we walk.
Second Peter 2 speaks of the way of the truth.
God is a spirit and those who worship him must do so with spirit and truth.
Now is the time to study the truth and attend Christian meetings where the truth is taught.
Do not miss congregation meetings.
First Timothy 315 compares the congregation with a pillar of truth.
The congregation preserves the purity of the truth and upholds it.
Truth Jehovah teaches us through the Bible but also through Christian meetings.
We are also to speak the truth by preaching.
We speak the truth also with one another.
We have the truth on our lips.
We have the truth around our hips.
Ephesians 6.14 says,
we have the belt of truth fastened around our waist.
The truth is in utter confusion.
What a blessing it is to know the truth.
We rejoice in it.
We are ready to preach the truth and teach the truth.
Yes, we talk the truth and we walk in the truth.
In 3 John 3 we read,
go on walking in the truth.
Those who walk in the truth now will walk forever.
Micah 4.5 says,
for all the peoples will walk each one in the name of its God.
But we will walk in the name of Jehovah our God forever and ever.
And that is a long time.
Help your students to love the truth and to lift the truth.
But if necessary, to be willing to die for the truth and for Jehovah.
The truth is invincible and will conquer this wicked world.
Maybe all including our relatives and your Bible students
have the determination to walk in the truth and talk about the truth.
Why shall we do this?
Because we love the truth and we love the God of truth.
We are also to lift the truth by our Christian conduct.
Brothers, this is the truth.
His Word is truth.
Keep talking the truth and keep walking in the truth.
Then you will walk forever and praise our loving God of truth.